add a user doc "Table Attribute" (#6794)
pingcap/docs: table-attributes.md

---
title: Table Attributes

> summary: Introduce how to use TiDB `ATTRIBUTES`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to use the table attribute feature of TiDB.
```

---

# Table Attribute

> Table attribute is a feature introduced in TiDB v5.3.0. Using this feature, you can add specific attributes to a table or partition to perform the operations corresponding to the attributes. For example, you can use table attributes to control the Region merge bahavior.

Author: ```suggestion
Table attributes feature is introduced in TiDB v5.3.0. Using this feature, you can add specific attributes to a table or partition to perform the operations corresponding to the attributes. For example, you can use table attributes to control the Region merge behavior.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > - Currently, TiDB only supports adding the `merge_option` attribute to a table or partition to take control of merging regions.

Author: ```suggestion
> - Currently, TiDB only supports adding the `merge_option` attribute to a table or partition to control the Region merge behavior.
```

> > - When you use TiDB Binlog or TiCDC to perform replication or use BR to perform incremental backup, the replication or backup operations skip the DDL statement that sets the table attribute. To use the table attribute in the downstream or in the backup cluster, you need to manually execute the DDL statement in the downstream or in the backup cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
> - When you use TiDB Binlog or TiCDC to perform replication or use BR to perform incremental backup, the replication or backup operations skip the DDL statement that sets table attributes. To use table attributes in the downstream or in the backup cluster, you need to manually execute the DDL statement in the downstream or in the backup cluster.
```

    ```

+ Reset attributes of a table or partition:

    ```sql
    alter table t [partition p ]attributes[=]default;
    ```

+ See all attributes of tables and partitions:

    ```sql
    select * from information_schema.attributes;
    ```

+ See the attributes configured to a table or partition:

    ```sql
    select * from information_schema.attributes where id='schema/t[/p]';
    ```

+ See all tables and partitions that have specific attributes:

    ```sql
    select * from information_schema.attributes where attributes like '%key%';
    ```

## Attribute override rules

The attribute configured for a table takes effect on all partitions of the table. However, there is one exception: If the table and partition are configured with the same attribute but different attribute values, the partition attribute overrides the table attribute. For example, suppose that the table `t` is configured with the `key=value` attribute, and the partition `p` is configured with `key=value1`.

```sql
alter table t attributes[=]'key=value';
alter table t partition p attributes[=]'key=value1';
```

In this case, the attribute taking actual effect on the partition `p` is `key=value1`.

> ## Region merging control through the table attribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Control the Region merge bahavior using table attributes
```

Author: 因为其他标题都是以名词开头，这部分要不我们写为 ”Region merge behavior with table attributes" 如何呢?

Reviewer: 这里看起来就是个使用场景，感觉用动词开头会更直接一些。

> ### Usage scenario

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### User scenarios
```

> If there is a write hotspot or read hotspot, you can use the table attribute to control the Region merge bahavior. You can first add the `merge_option` attribute to a table or partition and then set its value to `deny`. The two scenarios are as follows.

Author: ```suggestion
If there is a write hotspot or read hotspot, you can use table attributes to control the Region merge behavior. You can first add the `merge_option` attribute to a table or partition and then set its value to `deny`. The two scenarios are as follows.
```

> If there is write hotspot or read hotspot, you can use the table attribute to take control of merging regions by adding the `merge_option` attribute to a table or partition and setting its value to `deny`. The followings are two usage scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a write hotspot or read hotspot, you can use the table attribute to control the Region merge bahavior. You can first add the `merge_option` attribute to a table or partition and then set its value to `deny`. The two scenarios are as follows.
```

#### Write hotspot on a newly created table or partition

> If a hotspot problem occurs when writing data to a newly created table or partition, it is necessary to avoid the problem by splitting and scattering regions. However, if there is a certain time interval between the split and scatter operation and writes, it is impossible to truly avoid the write hotspot. This is because the split operation regarding the new table or partition produces empty regions, so if the time interval occurs, the regions might be merged. In this case, you can solve this merging issue by adding the `merge_option` attribute to the table or partition and setting its value to `deny`.

Reviewer: Global comment: region --> Region. Please pay attention to capitalization when it refers to a TiDB-specific concept.
```suggestion
If a hotspot issue occurs when data is written to a newly created table or partition, you usually need to split and scatter regions. However, if there is a certain time interval between the split/scatter operation and writes, you do not truly manage to avoid the write hotspot. This is because the split operation performed when the table or partition is created produces empty regions, so if the time interval exists, the split regions might be merged. To handle this case, you can add the `merge_option` attribute to the table or partition and set the attribute value to `deny`.
```

Author: “you do not truly manage to avoid the write hotspot.” 这部分修改为 “you are not able to/cannot truly manage to avoid the write hotspot." ，强调解决热点是无法解决的，这样如何呢？

Reviewer: 好的，已修改 comment

> #### Periodic read hotspot in a read-only scenario

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Periodic read hotspot in read-only scenarios
```

> Suppose that in a read-only scenario, you try to reduce the periodic read hotspot that occurs on a table or partition by manually splitting regions, and you do not want the manually split regions to be merged after the hotspot issue is resolved. In this case, you can add the `merge_option` attribute to the table or partition and set its value to `deny`.

Author: ```suggestion
Suppose that in a read-only scenario, you try to reduce the periodic read hotspot that occurs on a table or partition by manually splitting Regions, and you do not want the manually split Regions to be merged after the hotspot issue is resolved. In this case, you can add the `merge_option` attribute to the table or partition and set its value to `deny`.
```

> Suppose that you reduce the periodic read hotspot that occurred to a table or partition by manually splitting regions in a read-only scenario, and you do not want the manually splitted regions to be merged after the hotspot problem is solved. In this case, you can add the `merge_option` attribute to the table or partition and set its value to `deny`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose that in a read-only scenario, you try to reduce the periodic read hotspot that occurs on a table or partition by manually splitting regions, and you do not want the manually split regions to be merged after the hotspot issue is resolved. In this case, you can add the `merge_option` attribute to the table or partition and set its value to `deny`.
```

### Usage

> + Block to merge regions belonging to a table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Prevent the Regions of a table from merging:
```

    ```sql
    alter table t attributes[=]'merge_option=deny';
    ```

> + Allow merging regions belonging to a table:

Author: ```suggestion
+ Allow merging Regions belonging to a table:
```

    ```sql
    alter table t attributes[=]'merge_option=allow';
    ```

+ Reset attributes of a table:

    ```sql
    alter table t attributes[=]default；
    ```

> + Block to merge Regions belonging to a partition:

Author: ```suggestion
+ Prevent the Regions of a partition from merging:
```

> + Block to merge regions belonging to a partition:

Author: ```suggestion
+ Block to merge Regions belonging to a partition:
```

    ```sql
    alter table t partition p attributes[=]'merge_option=deny';
    ```

> + Allow merging regions belonging to a partition:

Author: ```suggestion
+ Allow merging Regions belonging to a partition:
```

    ```sql
    alter table t partition p attributes[=]'merge_option=allow';
    ```

+ See all tables or partitions configured the `merge_option` attribution:

    ```sql
    select * from information_schema.attributes where attributes like '%merge_option%';
    ```

### Attribute override rules

```sql
alter table t attributes[=]'merge_option=deny';
alter table t partition p attributes[=]'merge_option=allow';
```

> When the above two attributes are configured at the same time, the regions belonging to the partition `p` can actually be merged. When the attribute of the partition is reset, the partition `p` inherits the attribute from the table `t`, and the regions cannot be merged.

Author: ```suggestion
When the above two attributes are configured at the same time, the Regions belonging to the partition `p` can actually be merged. When the attribute of the partition is reset, the partition `p` inherits the attribute from the table `t`, and the Regions cannot be merged.
```

> When the above two attributes are configured at the same time, the regions belonging to the actual partition `p` can be merged. When the attribute of a partition is reset, the partition `p` inherits the attribute from the table `t`, and the regions cannot be merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the above two attributes are configured at the same time, the regions belonging to the partition `p` can actually be merged. When the attribute of the partition is reset, the partition `p` inherits the attribute from the table `t`, and the regions cannot be merged.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > - When there is now only an attribute of a partition, even if the `merge_option=allow` attribute is configured, the partition is still split into multiple Regions by default according to the actual number of partitions. To merge all regions, you need to [reset the attribute of the table](#usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - When there is now only an attribute of a partition, even if the `merge_option=allow` attribute is configured, the partition is still split into multiple Regions by default according to the actual number of partitions. To merge all Regions, you need to [reset the attribute of the table](#usage).
```

> > - If only the attribute of a table exists at present, even though the `merge_option=allow` attribute is configured, a partition still split multiple regions according to the actual number of partitions by default. To merge all regions, you need to [reset attributes of the table](#usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - When there is now only an attribute of a partition, even if the `merge_option=allow` attribute is configured, the partition is still split into multiple regions by default according to the actual number of partitions. To merge all regions, you need to [reset the attribute of the table](#usage).
```

Author: 这里的 “the partition is still split into multiple Regions by default”，是否需要改为 “the partition still splits multiple Regions by default” 呢？因为分区会主动切分成多个 Region。

Reviewer: 分区不是动作发出者，只能人去切 Region。

> > - When using the `merge_option` attribute, you need to pay attention to the PD configuration parameter [`split-merge-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#split-merge-interval). Suppose that the `merge_option` attribute is not configured. In this case, if regions meet conditions, regions can be merged after the time specified by `split-merge-interval`. If the `merge_option` attribute is configured, its configuration decides whether to merge regions after the specified time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - When using the `merge_option` attribute, you need to pay attention to the PD configuration parameter [`split-merge-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#split-merge-interval). Suppose that the `merge_option` attribute is not configured. In this case, if regions meet conditions, regions can be merged after the interval specified by `split-merge-interval`. If the `merge_option` attribute is configured, TiKV decides whether to merge regions after the specified interval according to the `merge_option` configuration.
```

> > - When using the `merge_option` attribute, you need to pay attention to the PD configuration parameter [`split-merge-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#split-merge-interval). Suppose that the `merge_option` attribute is not configured. In this case, if regions meet conditions, regions can be merged after the interval specified by `split-merge-interval`. If the `merge_option` attribute is configured, TiKV decides whether to merge regions after the specified interval according to the `merge_option` configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
> - When using the `merge_option` attribute, you need to pay attention to the PD configuration parameter [`split-merge-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#split-merge-interval). Suppose that the `merge_option` attribute is not configured. In this case, if Regions meet conditions, Regions can be merged after the interval specified by `split-merge-interval`. If the `merge_option` attribute is configured, TiKV decides whether to merge Regions after the specified interval according to the `merge_option` configuration.
```

> > - When using the `merge_option` attribute, you need to pay attention to the PD configuration parameter [`split-merge-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#split-merge-interval). Suppose that the `merge_option` attribute is not configured. In this case, if Regions meet conditions, Regions can be merged after the interval specified by `split-merge-interval`. If the `merge_option` attribute is configured, TiKV decides whether to merge Regions after the specified interval according to the `merge_option` configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - When using the `merge_option` attribute, you need to pay attention to the PD configuration parameter [`split-merge-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#split-merge-interval). Suppose that the `merge_option` attribute is not configured. In this case, if Regions meet conditions, Regions can be merged after the interval specified by `split-merge-interval`. If the `merge_option` attribute is configured, PD decides whether to merge Regions after the specified interval according to the `merge_option` configuration.
```
